# Building prototypes and empowering the client to create their own product.
## Aug 30, 2024


### Prototypes help you approach development projects with much more humility and intentionality.
This is a simple idea - it basically just means, before you sign up to dump thousands of dollars into a project, use something off the shelf to prototype it.  I like SquareSpace or Wix in this role.  I don't love highly visual, but non-functional mockups.  Just use a site like SquareSpace to prototype out as much of the capabilities as you can.  If you need to weave in public Google Docs, or Forms...etc, then do it!    

Agile methodology is based on the premise that clients don't know what they want until they have something in front of them.  That _is_ true, but what Agile gets wrong is that the first stages of this process shouldn't be highly developer-time intensive. You just need to get something functional, and not visually horrible in front of the user, to get some feedback and direction for the project.

### When developing a project for a client, give them as much agency over their own content as possible.

This is also a simple idea: it has to do with an idea about content v.s. container that I will talk about separately.  The basic idea is when you create a product for someone, acknowledge that it is their interaction with the product, years and years downstream of its launch that really makes it a great product.

What that really means is build the container for them, but don't put yourself (as the developer) in the loop for them to make changes to the domain-specific content of the site.  

E.g. if it's an ultrasound medical site, the developer shouldn't be involved in maintaining any of the medical imagery, the indexing, the text, or the linking between said.  In this way the developer's role is to empower the client to _create their own product._

